Let us enjoy reading this story of The Mongoose and The Child. 

Once, there lived a farmer and his wife. They had a little son. The farmer had a pet mongoose. The little boy and the mongoose were fond of each other. They were good playmates.
One day the farmer was busy at his fields. The farmer's wife had left to the market. The little boy was fast asleep in a cradle. The mongoose was lying down near the cradle. 

A cobra somehow got into the house and it was nearing the little boy. The mongoose sniffed the snake and jumped up. He fought with the cobra. The cobra began to attack. There was a fierce fight between the cobra and the mongoose. The mongoose finally bit and killed the cobra. 

The mongoose saw the farmer's wife returning from market. He ran happily towards her to greet her. She saw blood around the mouth and paws of the mongoose. The farmer's wife mistook that the mongoose had attacked her son. 

The farmer's wife took a long stick and gave heavy blows on the mongoose and then ran into the house. She was shocked to see a dead cobra lying on the floor near her son. Now she realised her mistake. Her sorrow knew no bounds. 

Let us enjoy reading this story of The Lion and The Frog. 

There was a lion in a forest. It was sleeping under a tree near a pond. Suddenly a noise was heared. The lion was disturbed by the noise. It awake from its sleep. 

The noise was continuously coming from the pond. So the lion was annoyed as it was not able to sleep. There was frog in the pond. The lion came to know the frog has made the noise. It roared at the frog and the frog was frightened. It angrily jumped into the pond to catch the frog. Then the frog realised its mistake and tried to escape from the lion. But the lion caught the frog and killed it. 

Let us enjoy reading this story of The Lion and The Hog. 

A lion came to a small stream to drink water. At the same time a hog also came there to drink. Each one of them claimed to drink first. The wordy duel between them became a big fight. 

There was a fierce fight and both of them became tired. When they took rest for a while, they saw two vultures waiting for eating the defeated. 

So they came to a conclusion that it would be better to avoid fighting and became friends than to fall a prey to the vultures. 

They became friends and both of them drank the water and went off peacefully. 

The Old Woman on the Moon :

Mona was a young girl who lived in	Mumbai. One night she saw the lull moon rise, climbing slowly across the sky. The moonlight was flooding her father’s corn fields. It was so very beautiful that she praised God for all the wonderful things around her. 

For her the moon seemed to be at a far distance. She looked at the moon and felt that somebody was sitting in it under the shadow of a tree. She had heard, “There was an Old Woman who lived there. How lonely she must be," Mona thought for a while. She felt so sad to think of her. 

Suddenly a moonbeam danced right into her room and bowed low and said, “The old woman on the Moon has read your thoughts and invites you for a visit. Won't you come with me? I shall bring you back in a few days." 

Mona's parents were away on a visit and only the old servant was in the house. She joyfully accepted the invitation and said, "But how shall I get there? The moon is miles away." 

"I shall take you there. All you do is to touch this magic moon rays and sit on my buck and by sunrise tomorrow we shall be to the moon.’’ 

Quickly Mona touched the magic rays and away she flew with the dancing. They crossed oceans and continents and Mona who knew her geography saw the outline of the world lade away. Higher and higher he moonbeam ascended. Stars and planets swirled past. She was so excited that she urged the moonbeam to fly faster and faster. 

It was dark and the outline of the moon was clearly visible. The light grow brighter and brighter and Mona was almost blind by the shining glow. She could see deep valleys and craters and high mountains. She knew that no humans lived on the moon because there was no air and no living things grew there. She wondered how she would breathe and how the old woman lived. Doubtless, she had some magic powers. She knew that the glorious Sun reflected its light on the moon. 

At last they reached the summit of a mountain and the exhausted moonbeam circled low and gently landed at the entrance of a beautiful castle made out of moon-stones. Each gem glittered in every hue and the enchantment of the scene fascinated the girl. 

A very old woman, her white flowing hair almost touching the ground, gently greeted the girl and bade her welcome. "You are the first human whom I have ever met. Are they all like you? I have watched the earth for millions of years. Tell me all you can about it. It. is so lonely for me here." 

"But how do you live here without air and water?" asked Mona. 

"My child, once you touch the magic moonstone, you need nothing. You can live here forever and not want anything." 

Mona was a gentle and kind girl and had great compassion for the old woman. Every day she sat with the old woman and told her stories of life on earth. She described the snow-capped mountains, the wide oceans, the green valleys, the bright meadows, the various beasts and the songs of the birds and the laughter of the children. But she sadly concluded that the earth was not all bliss as there was so much discord between different countries and much despair in the hearts of men. 

The old woman listened carefully and said that humans would soon reach the moon too. Already she had seen strange shapes circling the hills. "Of course, those are the space capsules. They are piloted by men called astronauts and I know that one is actually going to land on the moon very soon. They don't need to touch the magic moonstone to survive here. They have oxygen tanks and all sorts of scientific instruments to help them." 

The next morning, Mona was exploring a crater, looking for pretty gems when she heard a strange whirr and was astonished to see an unfamiliar contraption land bumpily near her. She knew it was some kind of a space capsule and gazed at the young astronaut with wonder. He in turn was so astonished to see a pretty young girl hopping among the craters that he nearly dropped his instruments. 

"Who are you and how did you land here?" asked the astronaut. 

Mona laughed and told her story. "But don't you want to go back to earth? I can take you with me." 

“Oh yes…I would like to return. But first I must say good-bye to the dear Old Woman on the Moon.' She will be so lonely without me." 

She bade the old woman a fond farewell and flew back to the beautiful earth with all its life. The old servant shook Mona awake with a hard shake and said to her, "Wake up Mona, you have slept the whole day and now it is night again and the moon is shining bright. Come and have your food." 

Mona at once got up from her sleep and she jumped out of bed. She went to the window and saw if the old woman was still there. But she saw nothing but deep shadows. She sighed and said, "Oh dear, I've only been dreaming!" 

Later on, Mona participated in a competition of story writing in her school. Mona had written about her wonderful dream and narrated the story very nicely. The judges liked her imagination and also selected her for the first prize. Mona was very happy and she shared her joy with her parents. Mona's parents were also very happy at what their daughter achieved and encouraged her to write on many things. Soon Mona became a writer and wrote many good stories with facts for children. 

There was a small village wherein several rich farmers were settled and only one poor man who was therefore called THE POOR FARMER. He had not even a goat, nor the money to buy any though he and his wife would have been extremely happy to have one. One day he said to her, "A good thought has just struck me. The carver can make us a lamb out of wood and paint it brown so that it will look like any other. In time perhaps it will grow big and become a goat". This proposal pleased his wife. And the carver was instructed accordingly and he cut out the lamb, painted it as it should be and so made it that its head was bent down is if eating. 

The next morning the goats were driven out to pasture and the farmer called the shepherd and said, "See… I have here a little lamb. But it is so small that it must as yet be carried." The shepherd said, "Very well" and taking it under his arm, carried it down to the meadow and set it among the grass. All day the lamb stood there as if eating. The shepherd said to himself, "See how it is eating! It will soon grow big and go alone." In the evening when he wanted to drive his flocks home, he said to the lamb, "If you can stand there to eat all the time, you must also be able to walk upon your four legs and I shall not carry you home in my arms." 

The poor farmer stood before his house door waiting for his lamb. The shepherd drove his herd through the village. The farmer asked him about the lamb. The shepherd replied, "It is still standing there eating. It is not listening to me". The farmer exclaimed, "Eh! What? I must have my lamb!" and so both of them went together down to the meadow. But someone had stolen the lamb and it was gone. 

The shepherd said "Perhaps it has run away itself", but the farmer replied, "No, no, that won't do for me." The shepherd was dragged before the Mayor. He was sentenced for his negligence to give the poor farmer a goat in the place of the lost lamb. 

Now the farmer and his wife possessed the long-desired goat and were very glad. But having no fodder they could give her nothing to eat. So, very soon they were obliged to kill her. The flesh they salted down and the skin the poor farmer took to the next town to sell and to buy a lamb with what he got for it. 

On the way he passed a mill where a raven was sitting with a broken wing and out of compassion he took the bird up and wrapped it in the skin he was carrying. But the weather was very bad with a great storm and rain so he was unable to go further and turning into the mill, begged for shelter. The miller's wife was at home alone and said to the farmer, "Lie down on that straw" and gave him a piece of bread and cheese. The farmer ate it and lay down with the skin near him and the miller's wife thought he was asleep. Later, a man came and she received him very cordially. She gave him a grand feast and the farmer was vexed on having been treated only with bread and cheese. 

The woman went inside the kitchen and brought well-fried chicken, rice and salad. As they were sitting down to eat, there was knock outside and the woman exclaimed, "Oh! Gracious! That is my husband!" In a great hurry she stuck the chicken in the oven, the salad under the pillow, the rice upon the bed, while her guest stepped into the cupboard where she kept the linen. After doing all this she let in her husband and said, "God be praised! You have returned again! What weather it is, as if the world is coming to an end!" 

The miller noticed the man lying on the straw and asked what the fellow did there. His wife said, 'Ah, the poor fellow came in the wind and rain and begged for shelter so I gave him some bread and cheese and showed him the straw." 

The husband said he had no objection and asked her to bring some food for him. The wild said, "I have nothing but bread and cheese" and her husband told her with that he should be contented and asked the farmer to come and share his meal. The farmer did not let himself be twice asked but got up and ate away. Presently the miller noticed the skin lying upon the ground in which was the raven and asked, "What have you there?" 

The farmer replied, "I have a truth-teller therein". " 

Can it tell me the truth too?" asked the miller. 

"Why not?" said the other "but he will only say four things and the fifth he keeps to himself." 

The miller was curious and wished to hear it speak and the farmer squeezed the raven's head so that it squeaked out. 

The miller then asked, "What did he say?" 

The farmer replied, "The first thing is under the pillow lies the salad". 

"That is a rare thing!" said the miller and went and found the salad. The farmer made the raven croak again and said, "Secondly, he declares there is roast chicken in the oven." "That is a good tell-tale!" cried the miller again and opening the oven, he took out the roast chicken. Then the farmer made the raven croak again and said, "For the third thing, he declares there is rice on the bed." "That is wonderful!" exclaimed the miller and he found the rice. Then the farmer made his bird croak once more and said, "For the fourth thing, he declares there are boiled eggs under the bed". "Oh! I like it." said the miller while he went and found as it said. 

The two men now sat down together at the table, but the miller's wife felt terribly angry and went to bed taking all the keys with her. The miller was very anxious to know the filth thing. But the man said, "First let us eat quietly these four things, for the other is somewhat dreadful!" 

After they had finished their meal, the miller bargained as to how much he should give for the fifth thing and at last he agreed for three thousand rupees. Then the farmer once more made the raven croak and when the miller asked what it said, he told him, "He declares that in the cupboard where the linen is there is an evil spirit!" 

The miller said, "The evil spirit must walk out!" and tried to open the door. But it was locked and the woman had to give up the key to the farmer who unlocked it. The unbidden guest at once bolted out and ran out of the house while the miller said, "Ah, I saw the black fellow that was all right!" Soon they went to sleep. But at daybreak the farmer took three thousand rupees and made himself scarce. 

The farmer was now quite rich at home and built himself a fine hut. Hence his fellows said, "The poor farmer has certainly found the golden fortune of which he has brought away a basketful" and they summoned him before the Mayor that he might be made to say how his riches came. 

The man replied, “I have sold my goat’s skin in the city for three thousand rupees". 

And as soon as the others heard this they also desired to make a similar profit. The farmers ran home, killed all their goats and taking their skins off, took them to the city to sell them for a good price. 

The Mayor, however, said. "My maid must go first" and when she arrived at the city she went to the merchant. But he gave her only three hundred rupees for the skin. And when the rest came he would not give them so much, saying, "What should I do with all these skins?" 

The farmers were much vexed at being outwitted by their poor neighbour and bent on revenge, they complained to the Mayor of his deceit. The innocent, poor farmer was condemned to death unanimously and was to be rolled in a cask full of holes into the sea. He was led away. Then they sent for a priest who should say for him the mass for the dead. Everyone else was obliged to move to a distance and when the farmer looked at the priest he recognized the guest whom he had met at the mill. 

So he said to him, "I have delivered you out of the cupboard. Now deliver me from this cask". Just at that moment the shepherd passed by with a flock of sheep and the farmer, knowing that for a long time the man had desired to be Mayor, cried out with all his might. "No. no! I will not do it…even if the entire world asked me I would not do it! No, I will not!" 

When the shepherd heard this he came up and said, "What are you doing here? What will you not do?" 

The farmer replied, "They will make me Mayor if I remain in this cask…but no…I will not be here!" "Oh", said the shepherd, "if nothing else is required to become the Mayor. I am willing to put myself in the cask! 

"Yes, you will be the Mayor if you do that", said the farmer. 

Then he got out of the cask and the shepherd got in and the farmer nailed the lid down again. Now he took the shepherd's flock and drove it away while the parson went to the judge and told him he had said the prayers for the dead. Then they went and rolled the cask down to the water and while it rolled, the shepherd called out, "Yes, I should like to be the Mayor!" 

They thought it was the poor farmer who spoke and said. "Yes, we understand it. Only you must first go below there." 

Then they sent the cask right into the sea. 

When that was done the farmers returned home and as they came into the village so came also the poor farmer, driving a flock of sheep quietly and cheerfully. The sight astounded the others and they asked, "When did you come? How did you come out of the water?" The farmer said. "I sank deeper and deeper till I got to the bottom where I pushed up the head of the cask and, got out. There were beautiful meadows upon which many lambs were grazing and I brought this flock of them up with me." 

"Are there any more?" inquired the farmers. 

"Oh yes!" replied he, "more than you know what to do with!"

Then the farmers agreed that they would go and each fetch a flock for himself. But the Mayor said, "I must go first." 

So they went together down to the water and there happened to be a fine blue sky with plenty of fleecy clouds over it which were mirrored in the water and looked like little lambs. The farmer told them, "Look there! We can see the sheep already on the ground below the water!" and the Mayor pressing quite forward, said, "I will go first and look about me and see if it is a good place and then call you." 

So saying, he jumped in plump and as he splashed the water about, the others thought he was calling "Come along!" and so one after another the farmers plunged in a great hurry. 

Thus was the whole village cleared out and the "Poor Farmer", as their only heir, became a very rich man. 